Add explanation for Class and Object, with examples. (#3880)
chipsalliance/chisel: docs/src/explanations/properties.md

| `+`       | Perform addition as defined by FIRRTL spec section Integer Add Operation            |
| `*`       | Perform multiplication as defined by FIRRTL spec section Integer Multiply Operation |
| `>>`      | Perform shift right as defined by FIRRTL spec section Integer Shift Right Operation |

### Classes and Objects

Classes and Objects are to `Property` types what modules and instances are to
hardware types. That is, they provide a means to declare hierarchies through
which `Property` typed values flow. `Class` declares a hierarchical container
with input and output `Property` ports, and a body that contains `Property`

> connections and `Object`s. `Object`s instantiate a `Class`, which requires any

Reviewer: ```suggestion
connections and `Object`s. `Object`s are the instantiation of a `Class`, which requires any
```

maybe?

queried, consider how the hardware instance graph is elaborated. To build the
`Object` graph, we first pick an entrypoint module to start elaboration. The
elaboration process works according to the Verilog spec's definition of
elaboration--instances of modules and `Object`s are instantiated in-memory,
with connections to their inputs and outputs. Inputs are supplied, and outputs
may be read. After elaboration completes, the `Object` graph is exposed in terms
of the output ports, which may contain any `Property` types, including
references to `Object`s.

To illustrate how these pieces come together, consider the following examples:

```scala mdoc:silent
import chisel3.properties.Class
import chisel3.experimental.hierarchy.{instantiable, public, Definition, Instance}

// An abstract description of a CSR, represented as a Class.
@instantiable
class CSRDescription extends Class {
  // An output Property indicating the CSR name.
  val identifier = IO(Output(Property[String]()))
  // An output Property describing the CSR.
  val description = IO(Output(Property[String]()))
  // An output Property indicating the CSR width.

>   val width = IO(Output(Property[Int]()))

Author: Yeah, maybe they should. Nothing in the example accesses them at Chisel time, but they'd need to be `@public` if so.

>   val width = IO(Output(Property[Int]()))

Reviewer: is it important to show the @instantiable and @public in this simple example...? It seems to be mixing concepts. The important thing here is that it is an IO(Output(Property...)), right?

 Maybe the @instantiable/@public could be a follow-on example that says this stuff works with D/I?

  // Input Properties to be passed to Objects representing instances of the Class.
  @public val identifierIn = IO(Input(Property[String]()))
  @public val descriptionIn = IO(Input(Property[String]()))
  @public val widthIn = IO(Input(Property[Int]()))

  // Simply connect the inputs to the outputs to expose the values.
  identifier := identifierIn
  description := descriptionIn
  width := widthIn
}
```

The `CSRDescription` is a `Class` that represents domain-specific information
about a CSR. This uses `@instantiable` and `@public` so the `Class` can work
with the `Definition` and `Instance` APIs.

The readable fields we want to expose on `Object`s of the `CSRDescription` class
are a string identifier, a string description, and an integer bitwidth, so these
are output `Property` type ports on the `Class`.

To capture concrete values at each `Object` instantiation, we have corresponding
input `Property` type ports, which are connected directly to the outputs. This
is how we would represent something like a Scala `case class` using `Class`.

```scala mdoc:silent
// A hardware module representing a CSR and its description.
class CSRModule(

>   csrDescDef:     Definition[CSRDescription],

Reviewer 2: Wondering why passing `Definition[CSRDescription]` as a parameter `csrDescDef:     Definition[CSRDescription]`?

Author: There are a couple annoying reasons. The short answer is that this is the way I'd write it today, so I'm trying to show the happy(est) path on the example.

Slightly longer answer... For one, we want to get the type of a reference to a CSRDescription in the Top module for the `definitions` IO, so it is useful to make the Definition there. Unfortunately, with the way D/I works today, if we also made new Definitions or used Instantiate within the CSRModule class, it will make duplicate definitions. I've spent some time trying to figure this out, but it in general it seems like Definitions are not shared across multiple calls to `Module`. So, the best way to get the FIRRTL we want, with one CSRDescription, is to only call Definition once, and pass the Definition to where it's needed. If you don't mind creating duplicate Definitions, it's not a problem, but I really wanted to show FIRRTL with one Definition of CSRDescription.

Reviewer 2: I see, the reason I ask this is I wanna Module is able to serialized and de-serilaized, when add a `Definition` in `Module`, it's really hard to pickle it. I think we can still use the traditional way to instantiate a `Object` w/o passing `CSRDescription` as parameter, I'll tweak it.

well as a `CSRDescription`. Using a `Definition` of a `CSRDescription`, an
`Object` is created and its inputs supplied from the `CSRModule` constructor
arguments. Then, a reference to the `Object` is connected to the `CSRModule`
output, so the reference will be exposed to the outside.

```scala mdoc:silent
// The entrypoint module.
class Top extends Module {
  // Create a Definition for the CSRDescription Class.
  val csrDescDef = Definition(new CSRDescription)

  // Get the CSRDescription ClassType.
  val csrDescType = csrDescDef.getClassType

  // Create a property port to collect all the CSRDescription object references.
  val descriptions = IO(Output(Property[Seq[csrDescType.Type]]()))

  // Instantiate a couple CSR modules.
  val mcycle = Module(new CSRModule(csrDescDef, 64, "mcycle", "Machine cycle counter."))
  val minstret = Module(new CSRModule(csrDescDef, 64, "minstret", "Machine instructions-retired counter."))

  // Assign references to the CSR description objects to the property port.
  descriptions := Property(Seq(mcycle.description.as(csrDescType), minstret.description.as(csrDescType)))
}
```

> The `Top` module represents the entrypoint. It creates the `Definition` of the

Reviewer 2: The `Definition` usage makes sense to me, but w/o the D/I API, does it also works?

Author: Yep. I haven't show an example using the "unsafe" APIs, but it's possible to create classes and objects without D/I. I wanted the first example to show the "safe" APIs with D/I, but I can add a follow up showing the unsafe version.

Author: I'll add some description about why we recommend Definition/Instance, and just mention DynamicObject, which has scaladoc for the unsafe APIs. We can add an example using the unsafe APIs separately if it's helpful.

Reviewer 2: Nice!

    connect value, csr
    propassign description, csrDescription

  module minstret :
    input clock : Clock
    input reset : Reset
    output value : UInt<64>
    output description : Inst<CSRDescription>

    object csrDescription of CSRDescription
    propassign csrDescription.identifierIn, String("minstret")
    propassign csrDescription.descriptionIn, String("Machine instructions-retired counter.")
    propassign csrDescription.widthIn, Integer(64)
    regreset csr : UInt<64>, clock, reset, UInt<64>(0h0)
    connect value, csr
    propassign description, csrDescription

  public module Top :
    input clock : Clock
    input reset : UInt<1>
    output descriptions : List<Inst<CSRDescription>>

    inst mcycle of mcycle
    connect mcycle.clock, clock
    connect mcycle.reset, reset
    inst minstret of minstret
    connect minstret.clock, clock
    connect minstret.reset, reset
    propassign descriptions, List<Inst<CSRDescription>>(mcycle.description, minstret.description)
```

To understand the `Object` graph that is constructed, we will consider an
entrypoint to elaboration, and then show a hypothetical JSON representation of

> the `Object` graph. The details of how we go from IR to an `Object` graph are

Reviewer 2: Currently, we don't have the API to get the hypothetical JSON representation. we can demo it in the panamaom framework.

Author: Yeah that would be great. I will update the wording here slightly, since panamaom isn't an "external tool". Maybe we can add an example in this section of the doc showing a concrete use of panamaom with this IR. It could traverse the descriptions and print something out, so we could show the code snippet and the expected output, or something like that.
